hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here
again episode 132 of the China history
podcast today we're going to begin a
series of episodes that take some more
close-up look at some of the
nitty-gritty of what went on in the
imperial court and about the daily life
of an emperor by zooming in real close
and examining the northern song waits on
Emperor we can use his life as our
vehicle to try to get a better
understanding of what a Chinese emperor
actually did through Wade's own this
will also be a chance for us to take a
long hard look at the northern Song
Dynasty and review some info in more
detail from past episodes will touch on
episodes CHP 28 of the northern sung as
well as CHP 71 on a young show is a
casual student of Chinese history there
was something about the Hawaii's own
Emperor that always intrigued me to have
been born so high and to have lived the
privileged life that he did for so long
it meant to fall so low and endure a
most degrading an uncomfortable fate
living out his last years and such
humiliating and desperate conditions
when I look at world history and
consider the many fates of conquered
monarchs the emperor weighed songs fate
ranks right up there as one of the worst
it wasn't too gruesome fate not in the
louis xvi nicholas ii or charles the
first category but it was but it was
pretty miserable all the same that for
some reason was something that defined
this emperor to me more than what he's
also known for that is his achievement
as a patron of the arts and his personal
achievements as a painter poet and
calligrapher
so when I saw that dr. Patricia Buckley
II brie at the University of Washington
recently published a book called emperor
weight song I bought it immediately and
put it in the queue for future podcast
fodder it is a nice big thick juicy
weighing in at 515 pages plus another
hundred and thirty three pages of notes
references and appendices Kant took one
look at this book and I knew there was a
whole multi-part series of podcasts just
waiting to see the light of day and
today we're gonna get to it up til now
and may I also say by popular demand we
haven't gone into that much detail about
any of the reigns of any Emperor
we talked big-picture issues but never
scratched too deep below the surface so
I'd like to take this opportunity to use
dr. a breez latest work as a primary
source and look at the life of this
northern song dynasty Emperor and from
this look at weight zones life we can
perhaps get a better understanding of
what life was like at the top in that
day the good thing about today's topic
is that by the time of the Song Dynasty
they really knew how to keep records a
lot of stuff survives from all kinds of
sources the Song Dynasty was founded by
Chuang Yin in 960 even though that was
1054 years ago
somehow quite a bit of material has
survived to our present day to give us a
pretty good look at almost every aspect
of the Song Dynasty in fact according to
Endymion Wilkinsons China history new
manual more works survived from the song
for both official and private sources
than from any previous dynasty the
reason is that unlike the Han the Jean
sway and tongue it's during the song
that block printing goes mass-market and
there occurs a spike in the amount of
printed materials that gets out there I
said in that a young show that under the
song China had its Gutenberg moment and
from these song materials China scholars
over the centuries from all over the
world have collectively raised overall
understanding of a Song Dynasty to a
degree where we actually know a heck of
a lot about what life was like then as
far as
Court related documents and histories I
hate to use the p-word but there indeed
were a plethora of documents that
survived and give us all the minutiae
that scholars ever wanted to know about
how the machine of state operated so
let's get our bearings on where the
weights on Emperor fits in the bigger
Song Dynasty picture the Song Dynasty
ran from 960 to 1279 three hundred and
nineteen years one hundred and sixty
seven years with the main capital in the
north at Chi Fung and then for a hundred
and forty nine years down in linen near
Hangzhou in the south the northern song
the southern song as you all remember
from past episodes the northern song
were kicked out of chi phone by the
Jurchens and the southern song are later
swept away by the invading Mongols led
by Kublai Khan who uh sure's in the
yeren dynasty so let's quickly review
everything that led up to the time of
white song now not including the last
northern song emperor quite songs eldest
son who was thrust onto the throne at
the last minute as the Titanic ship of
state was slipping beneath the waves
there were seven Emperor's who reigned
during the northern song all surnamed
Chou like the founder Jack wanyan also
known as the song Emperor tides ooh
the emperor ship went from tides ooh -
his brother tied song than to his son
Chen Zhong followed by his son Ren Zhong
who liked the song founder died without
sons so the Emperor ship was passed to
an adopted son who became the young song
Emperor now we're getting close to our
time period today the young song Emperor
had a son the shun song Emperor the
sixth song Emperor shun song is pretty
important to our story because a lot of
stuff happened under the shun song
Emperor's watch the shun song Emperor
had many sons but the two we care about
are his oldest son who succeed in him as
the Joads own Emperor and then we come
to the subject of today's episode the
Jade song Emperor
younger brother from a different mother
the white song Emperor so let's back up
to the shun song Emperor he reigned from
1068 to 1080 for this was the time of
William the first aka William the
Conqueror the First Crusade will begin
during shun songs son the Jade song
Emperor's time gunpowder had just been
invented and was described for the first
time in the war Ching song Yao in 1044
sung society was the most vibrant China
had ever seen before people were on the
go and there was a lot of migration of
northern elites and literati to the
south so this is the setting the big
achievement our big disaster depending
on your politics were the new reforms of
Leung unsure the shun song Emperor
invited Wong into his government and
gave him carte blanche to institute the
widest range of reforms pretty much ever
in Chinese history everyone in China was
affected by these reforms Wong unsure
was a progressive liberal inspired by an
earlier vice-chancellor Phan Chun yen
who proposed that it was a good idea to
take care of the poor in middle class
and help them to rise up and this will
in turn rise up the whole nation by
making it stronger and most importantly
providing a regular flow of increased
tax revenue into the song Treasury that
was the basic idea in theory I'm sure
you've heard that one before but one
ensures reforms went far beyond
providing for the welfare of the
peasantry they had a massive impact on
the military the bureaucracy commerce
finance agriculture and how society
itself was to be organized as well these
reforms of 1068 - 1085 turned the
established order on its head and the
shun song emperor backed Leung unsure
and allowed everything to proceed as
long as one unsure had the Emperor's
backing it was like a like a super
majority in the House and the Senate
here in the States
nobody could do anything about it but
nothing lasts forever in politics and
one
sure had his comeuppance when his
primary foes in the government one-time
reformer and now conservative Oh young
show in su Dongpo were able to stop Wong
in his tracks and then as soon as the
shun song Emperor died at the young age
of 36 that's it for long I'm sure and
he's out the rich and the landed gentry
can at last breathe a sigh of relief
there was a new sheriff in town and
whatever they couldn't repeal of the new
reforms they severely diluted so pretty
much from this point around the time
with a tion song Emperor there was some
intense bad blood flowing between these
reformers and conservatives and this
pretty much was the state of affairs
when wait song became emperor song
founder Chou Quan Yin had already been
dead for 92 years
so this shun song Emperor as I said he
died unexpectedly and before his time
wait song was only 28 months old his
older brother had been made the official
heir only four days before shun song's
death so you know he held out to the
last minute to name his successor
this new emperor Jude song he was only
nine when fate thrust this burden on him
as it always goes in cases like this
someone ruled on behalf of the emperor
while he was in his minority in the case
of each song Emperor was his grandmother
the mother of the deceased shun song
Emperor and the Empress to the yin song
emperor
this was Empress Dowager Gao and she
wasted no time dismantling pretty much
all the reforms of Wang unsure and
bringing back the conservative
heavyweights sama Guang and su-sure aka
su Dongpo who I mentioned the man who
also gave us the hangzhou specialty dish
don't Paul wrote so when Wade song was
just a toddler wearing Imperial split
pants all these reform-minded ministers
were all being shown the door Quade song
would have spent his first five years
living in the women's section of the
palace the Imperial Palace was all
divided up into sections and all the
female Royals all had their area this is
where we don't spent all this time the
two top heavy weights at the time were
Empress dowager's young and grand
Empress Dowager golf Chung being wait
songs legal mother but not his birth
mother and gall as I said the
grandmother of wait song and Jude song
Emperor's but the way the pecking order
worked and Prestage Hirsh Young's word
counted the most you had won empress and
a whole lot of consorts the way to get
ahead in the household was to bear sons
for the top guy that's how consorts
improved their lot in the grand scheme
of Palace politics
Quade song was the son of one of shun
song's consorts named Chung and consort
Chun's share price naturally skyrocketed
as soon as she produced a son by the
time Quade song was a 12 year old prince
he received a new title that came with a
nice fiefdom of three thousand
households one third of which provided
him with tax income in his day as an
hours the rich always got richer more
titles and entitlements came quoits owns
way
to say he lived a nice easy privileged
life was an understatement you see the
Song Dynasty way of doing things was the
princes the brothers of the Emperor they
weren't given any role to play in the
politics of the court they all got their
villas staff annual budget and whatever
else they might need and they stayed out
of court politics the military and
remained as benign as can be so as to
pose no possible threat one day to the
Emperor their brother in 1092 when wait
song was 10 the event of the year was
the marriage of his 15 and a half year
old brother the Joads own Emperor this
was quite a big deal in the capital and
Chi Fung hadn't seen a royal wedding in
seven decades this gala event was
followed a year later by the unfortunate
death of grand Empress Dowager go if you
haven't noticed I'm referring to all
Emperor's by their temple names these
are all the names that would have been
given to them posthumously the one thing
all these Emperor's and princes had in
common was that they were all to the
last man surnamed Zhang shun song was
Joshu Jude song was also Joshu but a
different character shoot and wait song
he was jo Chi but whenever discussing
time periods in Imperial Chinese history
pretty much everyone refers to the
emperor by his temple name so Quaid's
own lived it up as a young song Prince
he had been schooled by Palace tutors up
until around the age of 10 but now he
was being taught by outside teachers and
experts back in those days it was hard
core rote memorization of the classics
occasionally quoits on we get to wander
around Chi Fung with a entourage of
course but he did get to see it the Jews
of Chi Fung didn't have their temple yet
that would come in 1163 28 years after
white songs death but it's possible that
the white song Emperor might have
spotted one of them walking around when
the white song emperor got out of the
palace or out of his villa and got to
see the city
-
was at that time the greatest city in
the world in the late 11th century there
was no place like it on earth the walled
city of Chi Fung was massive it hid a
moat and everything 300,000 soldiers
guarded it the core was the old city
which measured 3 kilometers per each of
the four sides because of the explosive
population growth in the mid 10th
century new walls were built that
enveloped the old city walls these new
walls were seven kilometers long and
each side and 12 meters high almost 40
feet magnificent tong palace the wonder
of the world in its day located in chung
on present-day xian those walls were
slightly longer measuring nine
kilometers per side the chun-yan palace
was 84 square kilometers versus 49
square kilometers for the palace and Chi
Fung where the northern Song Emperor's
hung their hat inside the palace the
counselors handled matters of State and
eunuchs or palace ladies attended to the
personal matters of the Royals life was
completely segregated between men and
women princesses were all married out of
the palace by the time they were 16
as far as nobility goes and the Song
Dynasty you had the jaws and that's it
no Marlboros Fujiwara x' or other big
hereditary nobles he had the jaw and
pareil clan and no one else there were
21 gates that led you in and out of the
city a moat surrounded the walled city
30 meters wide and five meters deep the
population of Chi Fung during the time
of weights on was about 1.2 million
inhabitants same as during the height of
the Tang Dynasty
but Kai Fung scale was a little smaller
than Chung on the en river crossed west
to east through Chi Phong and it
eventually linked up with the Grand
Canal from which one could sail south to
Hangzhou there were four capitals of the
northern song but the imperial family
always stayed in the eastern capital of
Chi Fung and didn't move around much
like Emperor's from past dynasties when
the Emperor left the palace and ventured
out of the PALS for some ritual or
another that was the that was the only
chance one ever got to see him if you
lived outside of Chi Fung forget it
these guys were not like the Qianlong
Emperor who loved to travel around the
Middle Kingdom the palace was inside the
walled city and the place to hang out
back in those days and I guess in
chun-yan as well during the Tong was
right outside the palace gates
that was where everyone assembled and
met up and wherever people assembled in
masses you also had street vendors
entertainers beggars theaters places to
engage in the sins of the day there were
there were night markets dumpling in
noodle joints tea houses restaurants you
name it everything but an internet cafe
and wait zone on rare occasions would
get to dress up in his princely finery
and ride his horse around Chi Fung
always surrounded by his palace guards
and you know would check out the scene
by 1098 when wait song was 16 he and
four other princes all sons of shun song
left the luxury and comfort of the
palace and moved into the luxury and
comfort of their new digs these new
princely villas were designed by no less
a person than Li Jia himself Li Jia was
to architecture who say sunzha was too
military strategy
he is traditionally called China's
greatest architect from ancient times
Lee Jia wrote a book called the Yin
self-assured or the treatise on
architectural methods this was completed
under the reign of the chudd song
Emperor but it wasn't published and
widely distributed until the time of the
wait song Emperor's reign legion not
only went back and compiled all the
important info from previous works he
improved on them and added more it's an
entire how to do technical handbook on
everything that needed to be known back
then about building structures
craftsmanship tools and materials and
one of the things that makes Li Gia's
eating self-assured special is that it
was discovered in its entirety and
everything he wrote we got it this was a
technical guide that aided architects
builders and craftsmen for centuries and
this is who the chewed song emperor
commissioned to design and build the
villas for all the princes including
wait song wait song now called the
prince of duan duan wang would later
make lidia his chief architect and
director of palace buildings Quaid's Ong
didn't have much to do except enjoy the
pleasures of a young teen aristocrat
occasionally he would be called in to
cover at some ritual for his brother the
kidsong emperor
the deceased emperor shun songs sister
had a husband named Wang shun he was
quite the artist in an enthusiastic
collector of art in fact there are
paintings by Wang shun that survived to
this day go to Taipei to the National
Palace Museum you could see him Wang
shun taught wait zone everything about
this world of poetry painting
calligraphy and collecting I mean back
in those days when the literati royal or
non royal got together to drink tea wine
or whatever most of their discourse
revolved around these things in 1099
when white song turned 17 he was married
off to a nice 16 year old bride hand
selected by the highest authorities in
the palace and as a wedding present the
Empress dowager's young gave her legal
son two concubines so it was a
happy-go-lucky time for this young
prince not a care in the world and
certainly none of the problems of his
older brother the 21 year old at chudd
song emperor he was not doing well at
all aside from the pressures of being a
young and untested monarch and shark
infested Palace waters he was not in
robust health in fact you could say he
was dying up until maybe the 18th or
19th century if you got sick some of the
cures used in the day would would often
kill you I'm not saying this is what
happened in the case of the young hood
song emperor but he went pretty quick
around the time of wait songs wedding
the Emperor began to complain of this
persistent cough that he just couldn't
get rid of he had a dose of constipation
despite all the treatments available to
the son of heaven things got worse and
everyone who came in contact with the
Emperor saw he was visibly not well the
state of the art in medicine during the
Song Dynasty may have been the best in
the world but it probably wasn't all
that great from our perspective today so
the Jade song Emperor at such a young
age was starting to lose his lifeforce
in his 14 years as Emperor
hoods on with his consorts had produced
a total of four girls then suddenly when
all was looking so bad one of his
consorts sir named Leo produced a son
and there was rejoicing throughout the
halls of the Imperial City at such good
fortune
consort yo for her fine role was made an
empress and the chod song Emperor
suddenly began to rally and make a
comeback but at the height of all this
celebration this son and heir died and
to make matters worse the Emperor's
two-year-old daughter died suddenly
afterwards and then that's it by 1100
that Jude song Emperor had slipped back
into poor health and the powers that be
all put their heads together and started
thinking about what to do next
as I said medicine back then was hardly
what it is today so lacking any herbal
remedy one of the proposed cures was to
offer a general amnesty the precedent
for this great idea came from the Rennes
own Emperor who when quite ill offered
up an amnesty and then miraculously
recovered they also carried out Buddhist
and Taoist ritual services for a seven
day period and treated the emperor with
moxibustion this form of Chinese
medicine used the charred roots of the
mugwort plant Artemisia vulgaris
moxibustion is is thousands of years old
and was practiced in China Korea and
Japan the main idea behind this was that
this process would strengthen the blood
and stimulate the flow of Chi and
maintain general health even traditional
Chinese medicine today uses this method
to treat illnesses whatever the case may
be all the mugwort roots in the world
couldn't help that should so an emperor
and he died on January 11th 1100 now
what write the song rulers up till now
hadn't had the best luck with Imperial
succession for some reason the survival
rate of sons in the palace was real low
and there was a history of mental and
physical health issues
so from tides OODA tide zone to jang
seong to Ren Zhong to yang Zhong to Shen
Zhong to the present now deceased Jude
seong Emperor it wasn't always smooth
sailing remember that you had song
Emperor he only got the call to be here
a few days before his father the shun
song Emperor died everyone at the top
echelon of power put in their two cents
about you know who should succeed good
song but it was the Empress Dowager
Xiang who had the final say when other
princes were proffered as the best
choice
Empress Dowager Zhang's conclusion was
quotes all of them from the Prince of
shun on down are equally shuns own sons
it would be difficult to distinguish
among them on the basis of parentage the
Prince of shun has sick eyes the next is
Prince Duan so he should succeed
moreover the late Emperor once said that
the Prince of Duan would have a long and
prosperous life the Prince of shun she
was talking about was wait songs older
brother B being older though just barely
he was the logical next choice to
succeed
juds own but in those words from Empress
dowager's young wait songs fate was
sealed I'm not sure exactly what was
wrong with the eyes of the Prince of
shun he could have been blind cross-eyed
or something like that or maybe you just
had poor vision whatever the case may be
the Empress Dowager didn't like him and
so he got shunted aside the fact that
quaid son's birth mother had died was
also appealing to the Empress Dowager
with wait song on the throne there would
be one less competitor at court
it was written by one of the counselors
present that day quote when we got to
the chamber with the curtain of state
the Empress Dowager seated behind the
curtain said to the prince quote the
emperor has abandoned the world and has
no son you the Prince of Duan should
succeed the Prince shaking strongly
declined saying the Prince of shun
meaning his older brother B is the
oldest I dare not accept the Empress
Dowager said the Prince of shun has
defective eyes
the next should be established you
should not decline I also said that for
the same
of the dynasty he should not refuse the
manager and others pulled up the screen
curtain and took the Prince of Duan
behind it he was still strongly
protesting the Empress Dowager told him
to stop
I also parted the curtains and said for
the sake of the country you should not
decline from behind the screen we heard
the eunuch managers and others
transmitting the message to take the Hat
then we left and stood below in the
courtyard for a while when the curtain
was rolled up the Emperor was wearing a
hat and a yellow jacket sitting on the
throne the counselors and the eunuchs
from the manager on down all lined up
after congratulating quoits on the
wailing for Jed's own began there's
someone playing a role in the transition
from song to wait zone he has the major
role yet but he's already involved in
the rituals and ceremonies dealing with
the death of Jed's own this is its hi
Ching he's a famous villain from Chinese
history and we'll be getting to him as
his role increases in weight zones
administration his corruption and
political machinations aside he was one
of the greatest calligraphers of his day
and there were some real heavy hitters
wielding a brush in song China in the
eleventh and twelfth centuries
tae Jin's brother was one of the top
officials at court this was its high
bein more of him later so white songs
life takes an unexpected turn had the
Emperor ship gone to his older brother
life would have gone on in its idyllic
and pleasant way no major
responsibilities no hand in the nasty
court politics just a nice big stipend a
beautiful pad and sitting around
enjoying the gentlemanly pursuits of the
day but the record states pretty clearly
that it was his adoptive mother and
Prestage Hirsh young who wanted him on
the throne and so it was well he still
ended up with a nice place to live and
still had plenty of time on his hands to
deal with his artistic and literary
passions but now he had to dive
headfirst into the world of court
politics and as I said since
time of Wong unsure during the reign of
wait songs father shun song court
politics was not for the squeamish
the two main opposing factions really
had the knives out for each other and
now with a new emperor this presented a
rare chance for one faction to gain the
advantage over the other that wait song
was so young and untested made for an
interesting dynamic the cushions on the
imperial throne weren't even warm yet
before wait song requested that the
empress dowager xiang act as his advisor
she couldn't be a region because he was
already too old to have one of those he
was an adult according to the custom and
in his majority but all the same he
asked that the Empress Dowager stand
with him for a while and she reluctantly
agreed she was not looking to get
herself too deeply involved in all the
BS that went on in the palace court this
Empress Dowager was note sushi I hate to
say this but I'm and I have to dump a
lot of names on you right now this is
the this is the setup for the reign of
wait zone the main characters will be
the chief counselors eunuchs and fellow
Royals there were four brothers of wait
zone we mentioned the Prince of shun his
name was B they were also three others
and the four council members when Wei
Tom took over word song boo jammed one
type in who i mentioned in shu gym these
guys were all reformers but that didn't
mean they didn't fight amongst
themselves constantly the top eunuch at
the time was Lian song Jung the way it
worked you know probably with most
Chinese emperors was that they held
supposed altima totora tea but each and
every counselor or eunuch who had access
to the Emperor would at every
opportunity use every ounce of their
influence to bend the will of the
emperor in a certain direction and any
bureaucracy worth their salt hit a
thousand tricks up their sleeves that
allowed them to not carry out what the
Emperor
was calling for the emperor relied on
these guys and they all had private
agendas and an axe to grind with someone
or other near the top these officials
big and small who worked in Chi Fung
they were the elites to serve anywhere
else except Chi Fong was like was like
being banished there were 300 or so
prefectures in song China to serve and
any one of them was to operate in a
political Siberia all the action took
place in Chi Fung and all the action in
Chi Fung took place in the Imperial
Palace the two political arenas of the
day where everything was decided were
the imperial audience Hall where all the
big major macro level decisions were
made pronouncements made in the audience
Hall had maximum gravitas there were
also these literati opinion circles
these were the lucky few who hit regular
access to the Emperor informally well
there was never anything informal when
the Emperor was around but these were
the gang who would hang out discuss
poetry share calligraphy and you know do
all those things the literary and artsy
fartsy types do when they get together
they would be in these situations and
this would create a forum for these
officials to lobby Quaid song and test
the waters when decisions got made they
were printed into a kind of Official
Gazette that was passed around the
capital and from their words spread
through the realm through the Internet
of the day word-of-mouth the first order
of business after all the morning
rituals and ceremonies and the correct
amount of time had passed was to bury
the Judson Emperor his tomb was located
where all the other song emperor tombs
were in Gong County that's the today's
city of Gong Yi which is located about
equidistantly between law jung and jeong
cho Quade song began to bring back the
reformers who had not fared well under
his conservative-leaning brother the
hood song emperor and as soon as these
reformers got back to the pal
of course they at once began to try and
dismantle everything the Conservatives
had just built but wait song also
brought back anti reformers as well like
Hanzhong yin and several others amidst
quaid songs redesign of the palace
governments and all the bickering going
on behind the scenes there was bound to
be some sort of shake-up Quaid's own did
his best to build a team and to
encourage openness by the seventh month
of his reign the empress dowager Sheung
resigned and said she was no longer
needed actually all she had done up till
now was simply agree with whatever the
counselors and the Emperor already
decided she really didn't want to stay
on as weights unrequested when he
ascended the throne she didn't stay that
engaged in policymaking and as soon as
things appeared in order she stepped
down the senior grand councilor now was
Hanzhong yin his junior as grand
councilor was some bull they obviously
had the greatest power and influence
where Quaid's Ong was concerned now
don't mix Han Chong yen with fan Jong
Yin the reformer who inspired Wong
unsure by the time waits on finished up
his first year on the throne he had
reason to be hopeful the succession was
smooth and without any great opposition
he had quickly gained the support of the
conservative faction by bringing so many
of them back he seemed as if he was
going to be an emperor who got involved
and he encouraged his officials to speak
up he performed his role admirably in a
thousand and one rituals requiring his
presence or involvement though it was
far from a perfect team he did manage to
put together a competent group of
officials early on sung boo was sort of
adopted early on as wait songs teacher
he was trusted and was closest to sung
boo and listened to his advice and of
course Quade song still found time for
the Arts other than his depressing
demise later on in life its art and
literature that the song weight song
emperor is remembered for some more good
fortune real early on in the game weight
songs Empress
gave birth to a boy and one of his
consorts a wedding gift from his adopted
mother gave birth to a girl
things were off to an auspicious start
the first year hadn't gone too badly who
aids on got very close to one of the
more famous Taoist priests of the day
leo Hong Kong Leo had used his Taoist
ways to cure the chewed sown Emperor's
mother Empress Dowager cow his prestige
soared after that and he was bestowed
with all kinds of honors you know a lot
of face time with the Emperor who waits
on and the two exchanged letters and
poems often later on we'll see wait song
really goes over port with his
enthusiasm for Taoist beliefs and Leo
qin qiong was was an early influence
this might be as good a place as any to
put the bookmark in at the end of the
first year white song rained for 26
years and I promise you will pick up the
pace a little this won't be one episode
per year but let's just get comfortable
and stay a while in the late northern
song of the three thousand six hundred
and eighty nine years of Chinese history
going back to the first emperor of the
shang dynasty these days of the northern
song were some of China's finest as I
mentioned in previous podcasts China
despite being surrounded by powerful
aggressive and dangerous enemies was on
a roll in the late 11th and early 12th
centuries so we're going to keep going
with the wait zone Emperor for a while
we'll just sort of use him as our window
into these times in China
once again Patricia Buckley II brie the
book is Emperor weight zone published by
Harvard University Press great book to
get lost in and I'll be using this as
one of my primary sources for this
series so I do hope you'll enjoy this
some amateur and professional China
scholars might know of a professor a
breeze book the Cambridge illustrated
history of China I have the second
edition that came out in 2010 covers
China from Neila
times two guy Kukai Fung so anyone
looking for a nice easy to read general
history of China this one's quite good
and I always recommend it
hey I'm coming to Shanghai and hung Joe
sometime in mid-april maybe a few days
in Shanghai in a week or so in Hangzhou
a lot of you have written to me about
hooking up next time I'm in town and in
true fashion I started to keep a list of
everyone to call then I stopped keeping
the list and now I can't find it
anywhere so so let me know my cherished
listeners if anyone wants to meet up for
a beer and an eggroll a lot of you
previously reached out to me I'm going
to Hangzhou to study tea and work with
one of the local experts there for this
series I've been talking about doing for
the longest time on the history of tea
and Chinese tea culture so I'm finally
gonna do something other than talk about
it um they're not my sponsor or anything
but if you like books about Asia in
general or China in particular check out
all the titles available at Tuttle
publishing that's Tuttle publishing
dot-com they got they got some great
stuff they just published a new book on
Sir Robert Hart who we featured an
episode CHP 58 it's called an Irishman
in China the author is Joe Chun ten who
sadly passed away last year so check
those guys out at Tuttle tu TT le I used
to go to all the book shows in London
Frankfurt in New York and would always
love to go to their booth and check out
their stuff they had some great coffee
table books on Asia next time more
weight zone I have that Washington DC
trip March 24 to 29 so part two of this
series might be coming a little later
than usual whatever usual is these days
that's it everyone this is your humble
narrator Laszlo Montgomery signing off
from Claremont California
it's asia blue skies here again even
with all the la smog 88 degrees as we
speak if you could believe that
take care all and please do consider
coming back next time and the time after
that for another exciting episode of the
china history podcast